docs/source/index.rst, before:

====================
The Jupyter notebook
====================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: User Documentation

   notebook
   Installation <https://jupyter.readthedocs.org/en/latest/install.html>
   Running the Notebook <https://jupyter.readthedocs.org/en/latest/running.html>
   Migrating from IPython <https://jupyter.readthedocs.org/en/latest/migrating.html>

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Configuration

   config
   public_server
   security
   frontend_config
   extending/index

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Developer Documentation

   development_js

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Community documentation

   examples/Notebook/rstversions/Examples and Tutorials Index

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: About Jupyter Notebook

   changelog

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Questions? Suggestions?

   Jupyter mailing list <https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/jupyter>
   Jupyter website <https://jupyter.org>
   Stack Overflow - Jupyter <https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/jupyter>
   Stack Overflow - Jupyter-notebook <https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/jupyter-notebook>

Commit message:

Add sidebar box in doc's index for 4.1.x

docs/source/index.rst, after:

====================
The Jupyter notebook
====================

.. sidebar:: What's New in Jupyter Notebook
   :subtitle: :ref:`release-4.1.x` **Beta 4.1.0b**

   - Cell toolbar selector moved to View menu
   - Restart & Run All Cells added to Kernel menu
   - Multiple-cell selection and actions including cut, copy, paste and execute
   - Command palette added for executing Jupyter actions
   - Find and replace added to Edit menu

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: User Documentation

   notebook
   Installation <https://jupyter.readthedocs.org/en/latest/install.html>
   Running the Notebook <https://jupyter.readthedocs.org/en/latest/running.html>
   Migrating from IPython <https://jupyter.readthedocs.org/en/latest/migrating.html>

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Configuration

   config
   public_server
   security
   frontend_config
   extending/index

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Developer Documentation

   development_js

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Community documentation

   examples/Notebook/rstversions/Examples and Tutorials Index

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: About Jupyter Notebook

   changelog

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Questions? Suggestions?

   Jupyter mailing list <https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/jupyter>
   Jupyter website <https://jupyter.org>
   Stack Overflow - Jupyter <https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/jupyter>
   Stack Overflow - Jupyter-notebook <https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/jupyter-notebook>
